<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-3-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Bangor. The Archdeacon's house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, MORTIMER, and GLENDOWER</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>These promises are fair, the parties sure,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And our induction full of prosperous hope.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Lord Mortimer, and cousin Glendower,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will you sit down?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And uncle Worcester: a plague upon it!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I have forgot the map.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No, here it is.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sit, cousin Percy; sit, good cousin Hotspur,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For by that name as oft as Lancaster</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Doth speak of you, his cheek looks pale and with</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A rising sigh he wisheth you in heaven.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>And you in hell, as oft as he hears Owen Glendower spoke of.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I cannot blame him: at my nativity</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of burning cressets; and at my birth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The frame and huge foundation of the earth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shaked like a coward.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>Why, so it would have done at the same season, if your mother's cat had but kittened, though yourself had never been born.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td>I say the earth did shake when I was born.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And I say the earth was not of my mind,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If you suppose as fearing you it shook.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td>The heavens were all on fire, the earth did tremble.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, then the earth shook to see the heavens on fire,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And not in fear of your nativity.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Diseased nature oftentimes breaks forth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In strange eruptions; oft the teeming earth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is with a kind of colic pinch'd and vex'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By the imprisoning of unruly wind</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Within her womb; which, for enlargement striving,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shakes the old beldam earth and topples down</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Steeples and moss-grown towers. At your birth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our grandam earth, having this distemperature,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In passion shook.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Cousin, of many men</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I do not bear these crossings. Give me leave</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To tell you once again that at my birth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The goats ran from the mountains, and the herds</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were strangely clamorous to the frighted fields.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>These signs have mark'd me extraordinary;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And all the courses of my life do show</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I am not in the roll of common men.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where is he living, clipp'd in with the sea</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That chides the banks of England, Scotland, Wales,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which calls me pupil, or hath read to me?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And bring him out that is but woman's son</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Can trace me in the tedious ways of art</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And hold me pace in deep experiments.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I think there's no man speaks better Welsh.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll to dinner.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td>Peace, cousin Percy; you will make him mad.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td>I can call spirits from the vasty deep.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why, so can I, or so can any man;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But will they come when you do call for them?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why, I can teach you, cousin, to command</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The devil.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And I can teach thee, coz, to shame the devil</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By telling truth: tell truth and shame the devil.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If thou have power to raise him, bring him hither,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And I'll be sworn I have power to shame him hence.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, while you live, tell truth and shame the devil!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td>Come, come, no more of this unprofitable chat.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Three times hath Henry Bolingbroke made head</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Against my power; thrice from the banks of Wye</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And sandy-bottom'd Severn have I sent him</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bootless home and weather-beaten back.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Home without boots, and in foul weather too!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How 'scapes he agues, in the devil's name?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Come, here's the map: shall we divide our right</span>
									<br/>
									<span>According to our threefold order ta'en?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The archdeacon hath divided it</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Into three limits very equally:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>England, from Trent and Severn hitherto,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By south and east is to my part assign'd:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All westward, Wales beyond the Severn shore,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And all the fertile land within that bound,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To Owen Glendower: and, dear coz, to you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The remnant northward, lying off from Trent.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And our indentures tripartite are drawn;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which being sealed interchangeably,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A business that this night may execute,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To-morrow, cousin Percy, you and I</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And my good Lord of Worcester will set forth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To meet your father and the Scottish power,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As is appointed us, at Shrewsbury.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My father Glendower is not ready yet,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Not shall we need his help these fourteen days.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Within that space you may have drawn together</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your tenants, friends and neighbouring gentlemen.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A shorter time shall send me to you, lords:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And in my conduct shall your ladies come;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From whom you now must steal and take no leave,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For there will be a world of water shed</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon the parting of your wives and you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Methinks my moiety, north from Burton here,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In quantity equals not one of yours:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>See how this river comes me cranking in,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And cuts me from the best of all my land</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A huge half-moon, a monstrous cantle out.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll have the current in this place damm'd up;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And here the smug and silver Trent shall run</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In a new channel, fair and evenly;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It shall not wind with such a deep indent,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To rob me of so rich a bottom here.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td>Not wind? it shall, it must; you see it doth.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Yea, but</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Mark how he bears his course, and runs me up</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With like advantage on the other side;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Gelding the opposed continent as much</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As on the other side it takes from you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">EARL OF WORCESTER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Yea, but a little charge will trench him here</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And on this north side win this cape of land;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And then he runs straight and even.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>I'll have it so: a little charge will do it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td>I'll not have it alter'd.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>Will not you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td>No, nor you shall not.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>Who shall say me nay?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td>Why, that will I.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>Let me not understand you, then; speak it in Welsh.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I can speak English, lord, as well as you;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For I was train'd up in the English court;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where, being but young, I framed to the harp</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Many an English ditty lovely well</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And gave the tongue a helpful ornament,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A virtue that was never seen in you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Marry,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And I am glad of it with all my heart:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I had rather be a kitten and cry mew</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than one of these same metre ballad-mongers;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I had rather hear a brazen canstick turn'd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or a dry wheel grate on the axle-tree;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that would set my teeth nothing on edge,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nothing so much as mincing poetry:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis like the forced gait of a shuffling nag.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td>Come, you shall have Trent turn'd.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I do not care: I'll give thrice so much land</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To any well-deserving friend;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But in the way of bargain, mark ye me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll cavil on the ninth part of a hair.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are the indentures drawn? shall we be gone?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The moon shines fair; you may away by night:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll haste the writer and withal</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Break with your wives of your departure hence:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I am afraid my daughter will run mad,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So much she doteth on her Mortimer. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit GLENDOWER</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td>Fie, cousin Percy! how you cross my father!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I cannot choose: sometime he angers me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With telling me of the mouldwarp and the ant,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of the dreamer Merlin and his prophecies,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And of a dragon and a finless fish,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A clip-wing'd griffin and a moulten raven,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A couching lion and a ramping cat,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And such a deal of skimble-skamble stuff</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As puts me from my faith. I tell you what;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He held me last night at least nine hours</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In reckoning up the several devils' names</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That were his lackeys: I cried 'hum,' and 'well, go to,'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But mark'd him not a word. O, he is as tedious</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As a tired horse, a railing wife;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Worse than a smoky house: I had rather live</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With cheese and garlic in a windmill, far,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than feed on cates and have him talk to me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In any summer-house in Christendom.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>In faith, he is a worthy gentleman,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Exceedingly well read, and profited</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In strange concealments, valiant as a lion</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And as wondrous affable and as bountiful</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As mines of India. Shall I tell you, cousin?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He holds your temper in a high respect</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And curbs himself even of his natural scope</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When you come 'cross his humour; faith, he does:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I warrant you, that man is not alive</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Might so have tempted him as you have done,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Without the taste of danger and reproof:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But do not use it oft, let me entreat you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">EARL OF WORCESTER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>In faith, my lord, you are too wilful-blame;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And since your coming hither have done enough</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To put him quite beside his patience.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You must needs learn, lord, to amend this fault:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Though sometimes it show greatness, courage, blood,--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that's the dearest grace it renders you,--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet oftentimes it doth present harsh rage,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Defect of manners, want of government,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pride, haughtiness, opinion and disdain:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The least of which haunting a nobleman</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Loseth men's hearts and leaves behind a stain</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon the beauty of all parts besides,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Beguiling them of commendation.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Well, I am school'd: good manners be your speed!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here come our wives, and let us take our leave.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter GLENDOWER with the ladies</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>This is the deadly spite that angers me;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My wife can speak no English, I no Welsh.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My daughter weeps: she will not part with you;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She'll be a soldier too, she'll to the wars.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Good father, tell her that she and my aunt Percy</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shall follow in your conduct speedily. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Glendower speaks to her in Welsh, and she answers him in the same</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td>She is desperate here; a peevish self-wind harlotry, one that no persuasion can do good upon. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The lady speaks in Welsh</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I understand thy looks: that pretty Welsh</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which thou pour'st down from these swelling heavens</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I am too perfect in; and, but for shame,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In such a parley should I answer thee. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The lady speaks again in Welsh</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>I understand thy kisses and thou mine,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that's a feeling disputation:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But I will never be a truant, love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till I have learned thy language; for thy tongue</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Makes Welsh as sweet as ditties highly penn'd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sung by a fair queen in a summer's bower,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With ravishing division, to her lute.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td>Nay, if you melt, then will she run mad.<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The lady speaks again in Welsh</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td>O, I am ignorance itself in this!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>She bids you on the wanton rushes lay you down</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And rest your gentle head upon her lap,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And she will sing the song that pleaseth you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And on your eyelids crown the god of sleep.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Charming your blood with pleasing heaviness,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Making such difference 'twixt wake and sleep</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As is the difference betwixt day and night</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The hour before the heavenly-harness'd team</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Begins his golden progress in the east.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>With all my heart I'll sit and hear her sing:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By that time will our book, I think, be drawn</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Do so;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And those musicians that shall play to you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hang in the air a thousand leagues from hence,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And straight they shall be here: sit, and attend.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>Come, Kate, thou art perfect in lying down: come, quick, quick, that I may lay my head in thy lap.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LADY PERCY</td>
							<td>Go, ye giddy goose.<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The music plays</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Now I perceive the devil understands Welsh;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And 'tis no marvel he is so humorous.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By'r lady, he is a good musician.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LADY PERCY</td>
							<td>Then should you be nothing but musical for you are altogether governed by humours. Lie still, ye thief, and hear the lady sing in Welsh.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>I had rather hear Lady, my brach, howl in Irish.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LADY PERCY</td>
							<td>Wouldst thou have thy head broken?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>No.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LADY PERCY</td>
							<td>Then be still.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>Neither;'tis a woman's fault.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LADY PERCY</td>
							<td>Now God help thee!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>To the Welsh lady's bed.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LADY PERCY</td>
							<td>What's that?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>Peace! she sings. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Here the lady sings a Welsh song</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>Come, Kate, I'll have your song too.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LADY PERCY</td>
							<td>Not mine, in good sooth.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Not yours, in good sooth! Heart! you swear like a comfit-maker's wife. 'Not you, in good sooth,' and 'as true as I live,' and 'as God shall mend me,' and 'as sure as day,'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And givest such sarcenet surety for thy oaths,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As if thou never walk'st further than Finsbury.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Swear me, Kate, like a lady as thou art,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A good mouth-filling oath, and leave 'in sooth,'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And such protest of pepper-gingerbread,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To velvet-guards and Sunday-citizens.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Come, sing.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LADY PERCY</td>
							<td>I will not sing.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">HOTSPUR</td>
							<td>'Tis the next way to turn tailor, or be red-breast teacher. An the indentures be drawn, I'll away within these two hours; and so, come in when ye will. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GLENDOWER</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Come, come, Lord Mortimer; you are as slow</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As hot Lord Percy is on fire to go.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By this our book is drawn; we'll but seal,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And then to horse immediately.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MORTIMER</td>
							<td>With all my heart. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-3-2" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p>London. The palace.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter KING HENRY IV, PRINCE HENRY, and others</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">KING HENRY IV</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Lords, give us leave; the Prince of Wales and I</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must have some private conference; but be near at hand,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For we shall presently have need of you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt Lords</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>I know not whether God will have it so,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For some displeasing service I have done,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That, in his secret doom, out of my blood</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He'll breed revengement and a scourge for me;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But thou dost in thy passages of life</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Make me believe that thou art only mark'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For the hot vengeance and the rod of heaven</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To punish my mistreadings. Tell me else,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Could such inordinate and low desires,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such poor, such bare, such lewd, such mean attempts,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such barren pleasures, rude society,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As thou art match'd withal and grafted to,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Accompany the greatness of thy blood</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And hold their level with thy princely heart?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>So please your majesty, I would I could</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Quit all offences with as clear excuse</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As well as I am doubtless I can purge</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Myself of many I am charged withal:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet such extenuation let me beg,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As, in reproof of many tales devised,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>which oft the ear of greatness needs must hear,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By smiling pick-thanks and base news-mongers,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I may, for some things true, wherein my youth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath faulty wander'd and irregular,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Find pardon on my true submission.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">KING HENRY IV</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>God pardon thee! yet let me wonder, Harry,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>At thy affections, which do hold a wing</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Quite from the flight of all thy ancestors.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy place in council thou hast rudely lost.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which by thy younger brother is supplied,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And art almost an alien to the hearts</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of all the court and princes of my blood:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The hope and expectation of thy time</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is ruin'd, and the soul of every man</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Prophetically doth forethink thy fall.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Had I so lavish of my presence been,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So common-hackney'd in the eyes of men,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So stale and cheap to vulgar company,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Opinion, that did help me to the crown,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Had still kept loyal to possession</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And left me in reputeless banishment,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A fellow of no mark nor likelihood.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By being seldom seen, I could not stir</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But like a comet I was wonder'd at;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That men would tell their children 'This is he;'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Others would say 'Where, which is Bolingbroke?'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And then I stole all courtesy from heaven,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And dress'd myself in such humility</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I did pluck allegiance from men's hearts,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Loud shouts and salutations from their mouths,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Even in the presence of the crowned king.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thus did I keep my person fresh and new;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My presence, like a robe pontifical,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ne'er seen but wonder'd at: and so my state,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Seldom but sumptuous, showed like a feast</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And won by rareness such solemnity.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The skipping king, he ambled up and down</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With shallow jesters and rash bavin wits,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Soon kindled and soon burnt; carded his state,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Mingled his royalty with capering fools,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Had his great name profaned with their scorns</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And gave his countenance, against his name,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To laugh at gibing boys and stand the push</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of every beardless vain comparative,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Grew a companion to the common streets,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Enfeoff'd himself to popularity;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That, being daily swallow'd by men's eyes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They surfeited with honey and began</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To loathe the taste of sweetness, whereof a little</span>
									<br/>
									<span>More than a little is by much too much.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So when he had occasion to be seen,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He was but as the cuckoo is in June,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Heard, not regarded; seen, but with such eyes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As, sick and blunted with community,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Afford no extraordinary gaze,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such as is bent on sun-like majesty</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When it shines seldom in admiring eyes;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But rather drowzed and hung their eyelids down,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Slept in his face and render'd such aspect</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As cloudy men use to their adversaries,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Being with his presence glutted, gorged and full.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And in that very line, Harry, standest thou;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For thou has lost thy princely privilege</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With vile participation: not an eye</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But is a-weary of thy common sight,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Save mine, which hath desired to see thee more;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which now doth that I would not have it do,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Make blind itself with foolish tenderness.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I shall hereafter, my thrice gracious lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be more myself.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">KING HENRY IV</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>For all the world</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As thou art to this hour was Richard then</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When I from France set foot at Ravenspurgh,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And even as I was then is Percy now.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Now, by my sceptre and my soul to boot,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He hath more worthy interest to the state</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than thou the shadow of succession;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For of no right, nor colour like to right,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He doth fill fields with harness in the realm,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Turns head against the lion's armed jaws,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And, being no more in debt to years than thou,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Leads ancient lords and reverend bishops on</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To bloody battles and to bruising arms.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What never-dying honour hath he got</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Against renowned Douglas! whose high deeds,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose hot incursions and great name in arms</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Holds from all soldiers chief majority</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And military title capital</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Through all the kingdoms that acknowledge Christ:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thrice hath this Hotspur, Mars in swathling clothes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This infant warrior, in his enterprises</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Discomfited great Douglas, ta'en him once,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Enlarged him and made a friend of him,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To fill the mouth of deep defiance up</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And shake the peace and safety of our throne.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And what say you to this? Percy, Northumberland,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The Archbishop's grace of York, Douglas, Mortimer,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Capitulate against us and are up.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But wherefore do I tell these news to thee?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why, Harry, do I tell thee of my foes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which art my near'st and dearest enemy?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou that art like enough, through vassal fear,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Base inclination and the start of spleen</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To fight against me under Percy's pay,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To dog his heels and curtsy at his frowns,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To show how much thou art degenerate.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Do not think so; you shall not find it so:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And God forgive them that so much have sway'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your majesty's good thoughts away from me!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I will redeem all this on Percy's head</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And in the closing of some glorious day</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be bold to tell you that I am your son;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When I will wear a garment all of blood</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And stain my favours in a bloody mask,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which, wash'd away, shall scour my shame with it:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that shall be the day, whene'er it lights,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That this same child of honour and renown,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This gallant Hotspur, this all-praised knight,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And your unthought-of Harry chance to meet.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For every honour sitting on his helm,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Would they were multitudes, and on my head</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My shames redoubled! for the time will come,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I shall make this northern youth exchange</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His glorious deeds for my indignities.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Percy is but my factor, good my lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To engross up glorious deeds on my behalf;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And I will call him to so strict account,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That he shall render every glory up,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yea, even the slightest worship of his time,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or I will tear the reckoning from his heart.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This, in the name of God, I promise here:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The which if He be pleased I shall perform,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I do beseech your majesty may salve</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The long-grown wounds of my intemperance:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If not, the end of life cancels all bands;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And I will die a hundred thousand deaths</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ere break the smallest parcel of this vow.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">KING HENRY IV</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A hundred thousand rebels die in this:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou shalt have charge and sovereign trust herein.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter BLUNT</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>How now, good Blunt? thy looks are full of speed.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR WALTER BLUNT</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>So hath the business that I come to speak of.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lord Mortimer of Scotland hath sent word</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That Douglas and the English rebels met</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The eleventh of this month at Shrewsbury</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A mighty and a fearful head they are,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If promises be kept on every hand,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As ever offer'd foul play in the state.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">KING HENRY IV</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The Earl of Westmoreland set forth to-day;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With him my son, Lord John of Lancaster;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For this advertisement is five days old:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On Wednesday next, Harry, you shall set forward;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On Thursday we ourselves will march: our meeting</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is Bridgenorth: and, Harry, you shall march</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Through Gloucestershire; by which account,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our business valued, some twelve days hence</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our general forces at Bridgenorth shall meet.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our hands are full of business: let's away;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Advantage feeds him fat, while men delay. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Scene III</td>
							<td>Eastcheap. The Boar's-Head Tavern.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Bardolph, am I not fallen away vilely since this last action? do I not bate? do I not dwindle? Why my skin hangs about me like an like an old lady's loose gown; I am withered like an old apple-john. Well, I'll repent, and that suddenly, while I am in some liking; I shall be out of heart shortly, and then I shall have no strength to repent. An I have not forgotten what the inside of a church is made of, I am a peppercorn, a brewer's horse: the inside of a church! Company, villanous company, hath been the spoil of me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BARDOLPH</td>
							<td>Sir John, you are so fretful, you cannot live long.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Why, there is it: come sing me a bawdy song; make me merry. I was as virtuously given as a gentleman need to be; virtuous enough; swore little; diced not above seven times a week; went to a bawdy-house once in a quarter--of an hour; paid money that I borrowed, three of four times; lived well and in good compass: and now I live out of all order, out of all compass.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BARDOLPH</td>
							<td>Why, you are so fat, Sir John, that you must needs be out of all compass, out of all reasonable compass, Sir John.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Do thou amend thy face, and I'll amend my life: thou art our admiral, thou bearest the lantern in the poop, but 'tis in the nose of thee; thou art the Knight of the Burning Lamp.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BARDOLPH</td>
							<td>Why, Sir John, my face does you no harm.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>No, I'll be sworn; I make as good use of it as many a man doth of a Death's-head or a memento mori: I never see thy face but I think upon hell-fire and Dives that lived in purple; for there he is in his robes, burning, burning. If thou wert any way given to virtue, I would swear by thy face; my oath should be 'By this fire, that's God's angel:' but thou art altogether given over; and wert indeed, but for the light in thy face, the son of utter darkness. When thou rannest up Gadshill in the night to catch my horse, if I did not think thou hadst been an ignis fatuus or a ball of wildfire, there's no purchase in money. O, thou art a perpetual triumph, an everlasting bonfire-light! Thou hast saved me a thousand marks in links and torches, walking with thee in the night betwixt tavern and tavern: but the sack that thou hast drunk me would have bought me lights as good cheap at the dearest chandler's in Europe. I have maintained that salamander of yours with fire any time this two and thirty years; God reward me for it!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BARDOLPH</td>
							<td>'Sblood, I would my face were in your belly!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>God-a-mercy! so should I be sure to be heart-burned.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Hostess</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>How now, Dame Partlet the hen! have you inquired yet who picked my pocket?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>Why, Sir John, what do you think, Sir John? do you think I keep thieves in my house? I have searched, I have inquired, so has my husband, man by man, boy by boy, servant by servant: the tithe of a hair was never lost in my house before.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Ye lie, hostess: Bardolph was shaved and lost many a hair; and I'll be sworn my pocket was picked. Go to, you are a woman, go.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>Who, I? no; I defy thee: God's light, I was never called so in mine own house before.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Go to, I know you well enough.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>No, Sir John; You do not know me, Sir John. I know you, Sir John: you owe me money, Sir John; and now you pick a quarrel to beguile me of it: I bought you a dozen of shirts to your back.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Dowlas, filthy dowlas: I have given them away to bakers' wives, and they have made bolters of them.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>Now, as I am a true woman, holland of eight shillings an ell. You owe money here besides, Sir John, for your diet and by-drinkings, and money lent you, four and twenty pound.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>He had his part of it; let him pay.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>He? alas, he is poor; he hath nothing.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>How! poor? look upon his face; what call you rich? let them coin his nose, let them coin his cheeks: Ill not pay a denier. What, will you make a younker of me? shall I not take mine case in mine inn but I shall have my pocket picked? I have lost a seal-ring of my grandfather's worth forty mark.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>O Jesu, I have heard the prince tell him, I know not how oft, that ring was copper!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>How! the prince is a Jack, a sneak-cup: 'sblood, an he were here, I would cudgel him like a dog, if he would say so.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter PRINCE HENRY and PETO, marching, and FALSTAFF meets them playing on his truncheon like a life</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>How now, lad! is the wind in that door, i' faith? must we all march?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BARDOLPH</td>
							<td>Yea, two and two, Newgate fashion.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>My lord, I pray you, hear me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>What sayest thou, Mistress Quickly? How doth thy husband? I love him well; he is an honest man.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>Good my lord, hear me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Prithee, let her alone, and list to me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>What sayest thou, Jack?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>The other night I fell asleep here behind the arras and had my pocket picked: this house is turned bawdy-house; they pick pockets.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>What didst thou lose, Jack?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Wilt thou believe me, Hal? three or four bonds of forty pound apiece, and a seal-ring of my grandfather's.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>A trifle, some eight-penny matter.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>So I told him, my lord; and I said I heard your grace say so: and, my lord, he speaks most vilely of you, like a foul-mouthed man as he is; and said he would cudgel you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>What! he did not?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>There's neither faith, truth, nor womanhood in me else.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>There's no more faith in thee than in a stewed prune; nor no more truth in thee than in a drawn fox; and for womanhood, Maid Marian may be the deputy's wife of the ward to thee. Go, you thing, go.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>Say, what thing? what thing?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>What thing! why, a thing to thank God on.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>I am no thing to thank God on, I would thou shouldst know it; I am an honest man's wife: and, setting thy knighthood aside, thou art a knave to call me so.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Setting thy womanhood aside, thou art a beast to say otherwise.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>Say, what beast, thou knave, thou?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>What beast! why, an otter.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>An otter, Sir John! Why an otter?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Why, she's neither fish nor flesh; a man knows not where to have her.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>Thou art an unjust man in saying so: thou or any man knows where to have me, thou knave, thou!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>Thou sayest true, hostess; and he slanders thee most grossly.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>So he doth you, my lord; and said this other day you ought him a thousand pound.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>Sirrah, do I owe you a thousand pound?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>A thousand pound, Ha! a million: thy love is worth a million: thou owest me thy love.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>Nay, my lord, he called you Jack, and said he would cudgel you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Did I, Bardolph?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BARDOLPH</td>
							<td>Indeed, Sir John, you said so.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Yea, if he said my ring was copper.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>I say 'tis copper: darest thou be as good as thy word now?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Why, Hal, thou knowest, as thou art but man, I dare: but as thou art prince, I fear thee as I fear the roaring of a lion's whelp.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>And why not as the lion?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>The king is to be feared as the lion: dost thou think I'll fear thee as I fear thy father? nay, an I do, I pray God my girdle break.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>O, if it should, how would thy guts fall about thy knees! But, sirrah, there's no room for faith, truth, nor honesty in this bosom of thine; it is all filled up with guts and midriff. Charge an honest woman with picking thy pocket! why, thou whoreson, impudent, embossed rascal, if there were anything in thy pocket but tavern-reckonings, memorandums of bawdy-houses, and one poor penny-worth of sugar-candy to make thee long-winded, if thy pocket were enriched with any other injuries but these, I am a villain: and yet you will stand to if; you will not pocket up wrong: art thou not ashamed?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Dost thou hear, Hal? thou knowest in the state of innocency Adam fell; and what should poor Jack Falstaff do in the days of villany? Thou seest I have more flesh than another man, and therefore more frailty. You confess then, you picked my pocket?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>It appears so by the story.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Hostess, I forgive thee: go, make ready breakfast; love thy husband, look to thy servants, cherish thy guests: thou shalt find me tractable to any honest reason: thou seest I am pacified still. Nay, prithee, be gone. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Hostess</i> Now Hal, to the news at court: for the robbery, lad, how is that answered?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>O, my sweet beef, I must still be good angel tothee: the money is paid back again.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>O, I do not like that paying back; 'tis a double labour.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>I am good friends with my father and may do any thing.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>Rob me the exchequer the first thing thou doest, and do it with unwashed hands too.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BARDOLPH</td>
							<td>Do, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>I have procured thee, Jack, a charge of foot.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td>I would it had been of horse. Where shall I find one that can steal well? O for a fine thief, of the age of two and twenty or thereabouts! I am heinously unprovided. Well, God be thanked for these rebels, they offend none but the virtuous: I laud them, I praise them.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td>Bardolph!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BARDOLPH</td>
							<td>My lord?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE HENRY</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Go bear this letter to Lord John of Lancaster, to my brother John; this to my Lord of Westmoreland. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Bardolph</i> Go, Peto, to horse, to horse; for thou and I have thirty miles to ride yet ere dinner time. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Peto</i> Jack, meet me to-morrow in the temple hall at two o'clock in the afternoon.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There shalt thou know thy charge; and there receive</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Money and order for their furniture.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The land is burning; Percy stands on high;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And either we or they must lower lie. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit PRINCE HENRY</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FALSTAFF</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Rare words! brave world! Hostess, my breakfast, come!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, I could wish this tavern were my drum! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
