<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-4-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>The rebel camp near Shrewsbury.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Worcester</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Douglas</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Well said, my noble Scot: if speaking truth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In this fine age were not thought flattery,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such attribution should the Douglas have,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As not a soldier of this season’s stamp</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Should go so general current through the world.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By God, I cannot flatter; I do defy</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The tongues of soothers; but a braver place</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In my heart’s love hath no man than yourself:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nay, task me to my word; approve me, lord.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Douglas</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou art the king of honour:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No man so potent breathes upon the ground</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But I will beard him.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td>Do so, and ’tis well.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter a <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</b> with letters.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>What letters hast thou there?⁠—I can but thank you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</td>
							<td>These letters come from your father.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td>Letters from him! why comes he not himself?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</td>
							<td>He cannot come, my lord; he is grievous sick.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>’Zounds! how has he the leisure to be sick</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In such a rustling time? Who leads his power?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Under whose government come they along?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</td>
							<td>His letters bear his mind, not I, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Worcester</td>
							<td>I prithee, tell me, doth he keep his bed?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He did, my lord, four days ere I set forth;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And at the time of my departure thence</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He was much fear’d by his physicians.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Worcester</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I would the state of time had first been whole</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ere he by sickness had been visited:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His health was never better worth than now.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sick now! droop now! this sickness doth infect</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The very life-blood of our enterprise;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>’Tis catching hither, even to our camp.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He writes me here, that inward sickness⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that his friends by deputation could not</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So soon be drawn, nor did he think it meet</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To lay so dangerous and dear a trust</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On any soul removed but on his own.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet doth he give us bold advertisement,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That with our small conjunction we should on,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To see how fortune is disposed to us;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For, as he writes, there is no quailing now,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Because the king is certainly possess’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of all our purposes. What say you to it?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Worcester</td>
							<td>Your father’s sickness is a maim to us.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A perilous gash, a very limb lopp’d off:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And yet, in faith, it is not; his present want</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Seems more than we shall find it: were it good</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To set the exact wealth of all our states</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All at one cast? to set so rich a main</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On the nice hazard of one doubtful hour?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It were not good; for therein should we read</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The very bottom and the soul of hope,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The very list, the very utmost bound</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of all our fortunes.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Douglas</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>’Faith, and so we should;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where now remains a sweet reversion:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We may boldly spend upon the hope of what</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is to come in:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A comfort of retirement lives in this.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A rendezvous, a home to fly unto,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If that the devil and mischance look big</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon the maidenhead of our affairs.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Worcester</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>But yet I would your father had been here.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The quality and hair of our attempt</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Brooks no division: it will be thought</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By some, that know not why he is away,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That wisdom, loyalty and mere dislike</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of our proceedings kept the earl from hence:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And think how such an apprehension</span>
									<br/>
									<span>May turn the tide of fearful faction</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And breed a kind of question in our cause;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For well you know we of the offering side</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must keep aloof from strict arbitrement,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And stop all sight-holes, every loop from whence</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The eye of reason may pry in upon us:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This absence of your father’s draws a curtain,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That shows the ignorant a kind of fear</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Before not dreamt of.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>You strain too far.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I rather of his absence make this use:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It lends a lustre and more great opinion,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A larger dare to our great enterprise,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than if the earl were here; for men must think,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If we without his help can make a head</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To push against a kingdom, with his help</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We shall o’erturn it topsy-turvy down.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet all goes well, yet all our joints are whole.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Douglas</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>As heart can think: there is not such a word</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Spoke of in Scotland as this term of fear.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Richard Vernon</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td>My cousin Vernon! welcome, by my soul.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Vernon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Pray God my news be worth a welcome, lord.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The Earl of Westmoreland, seven thousand strong,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is marching hitherwards; with him Prince John.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td>No harm: what more?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Vernon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And further, I have learn’d,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The king himself in person is set forth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or hitherwards intended speedily,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With strong and mighty preparation.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He shall be welcome too. Where is his son,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The nimble-footed madcap Prince of Wales,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And his comrades, that daff’d the world aside,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And bid it pass?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Vernon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>All furnish’d, all in arms;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All plumed like estridges that with the wind</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Baited like eagles having lately bathed;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Glittering in golden coats, like images;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As full of spirit as the month of May,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And gorgeous as the sun at midsummer;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wanton as youthful goats, wild as young bulls.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I saw young Harry, with his beaver on,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His cuisses on his thighs, gallantly arm’d,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rise from the ground like feather’d Mercury,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And vaulted with such ease into his seat,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As if an angel dropp’d down from the clouds,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To turn and wind a fiery Pegasus</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And witch the world with noble horsemanship.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No more, no more: worse than the sun in March,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This praise doth nourish agues. Let them come:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They come like sacrifices in their trim,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And to the fire-eyed maid of smoky war</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All hot and bleeding will we offer them:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The mailed Mars shall on his altar sit</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Up to the ears in blood. I am on fire</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To hear this rich reprisal is so nigh</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And yet not ours. Come, let me taste my horse,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who is to bear me like a thunderbolt</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Against the bosom of the Prince of Wales:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Harry to Harry shall, hot horse to horse,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Meet and ne’er part till one drop down a corse.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O that Glendower were come!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Vernon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>There is more news:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I learn’d in Worcester, as I rode along,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He cannot draw his power this fourteen days.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Douglas</td>
							<td>That’s the worst tidings that I hear of yet.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Worcester</td>
							<td>Ay, by my faith, that bears a frosty sound.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td>What may the king’s whole battle reach unto?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Vernon</td>
							<td>To thirty thousand.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Forty let it be:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My father and Glendower being both away,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The powers of us may serve so great a day.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Come, let us take a muster speedily:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Doomsday is near; die all, die merrily.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Douglas</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Talk not of dying: I am out of fear</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of death or death’s hand for this one-half year. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-4-2" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p>A public road near Coventry.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Falstaff</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bardolph</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Falstaff</td>
							<td>Bardolph, get thee before to Coventry; fill me a bottle of sack: our soldiers shall march through; we’ll to Sutton Co’fil’ to-night.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bardolph</td>
							<td>Will you give me money, captain?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Falstaff</td>
							<td>Lay out, lay out.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bardolph</td>
							<td>This bottle makes an angel.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Falstaff</td>
							<td>An if it do, take it for thy labour; and if it make twenty, take them all; I’ll answer the coinage. Bid my lieutenant Peto meet me at town’s end.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bardolph</td>
							<td>I will, captain: farewell. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Falstaff</td>
							<td>If I be not ashamed of my soldiers, I am a soused gurnet. I have misused the king’s press damnably. I have got, in exchange of a hundred and fifty soldiers, three hundred and odd pounds. I press me none but good house-holders, yeoman’s sons; inquire me out contracted bachelors, such as had been asked twice on the banns; such a commodity of warm slaves, as had as lieve hear the devil as a drum; such as fear the report of a caliver worse than a struck fowl or a hurt wild-duck. I pressed me none but such toasts-and-butter, with hearts in their bellies no bigger than pins’ heads, and they have bought out their services; and now my whole charge consists of ancients, corporals, lieutenants, gentlemen of companies, slaves as ragged as Lazarus in the painted cloth, where the glutton’s dogs licked his sores; and such as indeed were never soldiers, but discarded unjust serving-men, younger sons to younger brothers, revolted tapsters and ostlers trade-fallen, the cankers of a calm world and a long peace, ten times more dishonourable ragged than an old faced ancient: and such have I, to fill up the rooms of them that have bought out their services, that you would think that I had a hundred and fifty tattered prodigals lately come from swine-keeping, from eating draff and husks. A mad fellow met me on the way and told me I had unloaded all the gibbets and pressed the dead bodies. No eye hath seen such scarecrows. I’ll not march through Coventry with them, that’s flat: nay, and the villains march wide betwixt the legs, as if they had gyves on; for indeed I had the most of them out of prison. There’s but a shirt and a half in all my company; and the half shirt is two napkins tacked together and thrown over the shoulders like an herald’s coat without sleeves; and the shirt, to say the truth, stolen from my host at Saint Alban’s, or the red-nose innkeeper of Daventry. But that’s all one; they’ll find linen enough on every hedge.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Prince</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Westmoreland</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Prince</td>
							<td>How now, blown Jack! how now, quilt!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Falstaff</td>
							<td>What, Hal! how now, mad wag! what a devil dost thou in Warwickshire? My good Lord of Westmoreland, I cry you mercy: I thought your honour had already been at Shrewsbury.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Westmoreland</td>
							<td>Faith, Sir John, ’tis more than time that I were there, and you too; but my powers are there already. The king, I can tell you, looks for us all: we must away all night.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Falstaff</td>
							<td>Tut, never fear me: I am as vigilant as a cat to steal cream.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Prince</td>
							<td>I think, to steal cream indeed, for thy theft hath already made thee butter. But tell me, Jack, whose fellows are these that come after?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Falstaff</td>
							<td>Mine, Hal, mine.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Prince</td>
							<td>I did never see such pitiful rascals.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Falstaff</td>
							<td>Tut, tut; good enough to toss; food for powder, food for powder; they’ll fill a pit as well as better: tush, man, mortal men, mortal men.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Westmoreland</td>
							<td>Ay, but, Sir John, methinks they are exceeding poor and bare, too beggarly.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Falstaff</td>
							<td>’Faith, for their poverty, I know not where they had that; and for their bareness, I am sure they never learned that of me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Prince</td>
							<td>No I’ll be sworn; unless you call three fingers on the ribs bare. But, sirrah, make haste: Percy is already in the field.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Falstaff</td>
							<td>What, is the king encamped?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Westmoreland</td>
							<td>He is, Sir John: I fear we shall stay too long.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Falstaff</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Well,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fits a dull fighter and a keen guest. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-4-3" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
				</h3>
				<p>The rebel camp near Shrewsbury.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Worcester</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Douglas</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Vernon</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td>We’ll fight with him to-night.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Worcester</td>
							<td>It may not be.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Douglas</td>
							<td>You give him then the advantage.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Vernon</td>
							<td>Not a whit.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td>Why say you so? looks he not for supply?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Vernon</td>
							<td>So do we.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td>His is certain, ours is doubtful.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Worcester</td>
							<td>Good cousin, be advised; stir not to-night.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Vernon</td>
							<td>Do not, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Douglas</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>You do not counsel well:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You speak it out of fear and cold heart.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Vernon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Do me no slander, Douglas: by my life,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And I dare well maintain it with my life,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If well-respected honour bid me on,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I hold as little counsel with weak fear</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As you, my lord, or any Scot that this day lives:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let it be seen to-morrow in the battle</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which of us fears.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Douglas</td>
							<td>Yea, or to-night.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Vernon</td>
							<td>Content.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td>To-night, say I.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Vernon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Come, come it nay not be. I wonder much,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Being men of such great leading as you are,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That you foresee not what impediments</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Drag back our expedition: certain horse</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of my cousin Vernon’s are not yet come up:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your uncle Worcester’s horse came but to-day;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And now their pride and mettle is asleep,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Their courage with hard labour tame and dull,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That not a horse is half the half of himself.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>So are the horses of the enemy</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In general, journey-bated and brought low:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The better part of ours are full of rest.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Worcester</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The number of the king exceedeth ours:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For God’s sake, cousin, stay till all come in. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The trumpet sounds a parley.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Walter Blunt</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Blunt</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I come with gracious offers from the king,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If you vouchsafe me hearing and respect.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Welcome, Sir Walter Blunt; and would to God</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You were of our determination!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Some of us love you well; and even those some</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Envy your great deservings and good name,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Because you are not of our quality,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But stand against us like an enemy.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Blunt</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And God defend but still I should stand so,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So long as out of limit and true rule</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You stand against anointed majesty.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But to my charge. The king hath sent to know</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The nature of your griefs, and whereupon</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You conjure from the breast of civil peace</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such bold hostility, teaching his duteous land</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Audacious cruelty. If that the king</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have any way your good deserts forgot,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which he confesseth to be manifold,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He bids you name your griefs; and with all speed</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You shall have your desires with interest</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And pardon absolute for yourself and these</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Herein misled by your suggestion.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The king is kind; and well we know the king</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Knows at what time to promise, when to pay.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My father and my uncle and myself</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Did give him that same royalty he wears;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And when he was not six and twenty strong,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sick in the world’s regard, wretched and low,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A poor unminded outlaw sneaking home,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My father gave him welcome to the shore;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And when he heard him swear and vow to God</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He came but to be Duke of Lancaster,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To sue his livery and beg his peace,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With tears of innocency and terms of zeal,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My father, in kind heart and pity moved,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Swore him assistance and perform’d it too.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Now when the lords and barons of the realm</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Perceived Northumberland did lean to him,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The more and less came in with cap and knee;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Met him in boroughs, cities, villages,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Attended him on bridges, stood in lanes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Laid gifts before him, proffer’d him their oaths,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Gave him their heirs, as pages follow’d him</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Even at the heels in golden multitudes.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He presently, as greatness knows itself,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Steps me a little higher than his vow</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Made to my father, while his blood was poor,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon the naked shore at Ravenspurgh;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And now, forsooth, takes on him to reform</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Some certain edicts and some strait decrees</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That lie too heavy on the commonwealth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Cries out upon abuses, seems to weep</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Over his country’s wrongs; and by this face,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This seeming brow of justice, did he win</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The hearts of all that he did angle for;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Proceeded further; cut me off the heads</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of all the favourites that the absent king</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In deputation left behind him here,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When he was personal in the Irish war.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Blunt</td>
							<td>Tut, I came not to hear this.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Then to the point.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In short time after, he deposed the king;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Soon after that, deprived him of his life;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And in the neck of that, task’d the whole state;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To make that worse, suffer’d his kinsman March,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who is, if every owner were well placed,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Indeed his king, to be engaged in Wales,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There without ransom to lie forfeited;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Disgraced me in my happy victories,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sought to entrap me by intelligence;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rated mine uncle from the council-board;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In rage dismiss’d my father from the court;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Broke oath on oath, committed wrong on wrong,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And in conclusion drove us to seek out</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This head of safety; and withal to pry</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Into his title, the which we find</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Too indirect for long continuance.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Blunt</td>
							<td>Shall I return this answer to the king?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Not so, Sir Walter: we’ll withdraw awhile.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Go to the king; and let there be impawn’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Some surety for a safe return again,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And in the morning early shall my uncle</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bring him our purposes: and so farewell.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Blunt</td>
							<td>I would you would accept of grace and love.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hotspur</td>
							<td>And may be so we shall.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Blunt</td>
							<td>Pray God you do. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-4-4" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
				</h3>
				<p>York. The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Archbishop’s</b> palace.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Archbishop of York</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Michael</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Archbishop</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Hie, good Sir Michael; bear this sealed brief</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With winged haste to the lord marshal;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This to my cousin Scroop, and all the rest</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To whom they are directed. If you knew</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How much they do to import, you would make haste.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Michael</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My good lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I guess their tenour.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Archbishop</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Like enough you do.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To-morrow, good Sir Michael, is a day</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wherein the fortune of ten thousand men</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must bide the touch; for, sir, at Shrewsbury,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As I am truly given to understand,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The king with mighty and quick-raised power</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Meets with Lord Harry: and, I fear, Sir Michael,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What with the sickness of Northumberland,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose power was in the first proportion,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And what with Owen Glendower’s absence thence,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who with them was a rated sinew too</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And comes not in, o’er-ruled by prophecies,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I fear the power of Percy is too weak</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To wage an instant trial with the king.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Michael</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why, my good lord, you need not fear;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There is Douglas and Lord Mortimer.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Archbishop</td>
							<td>No, Mortimer is not there.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Michael</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>But there is Mordake, Vernon, Lord Harry Percy,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And there is my Lord of Worcester and a head</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of gallant warriors, noble gentlemen.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Archbishop</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And so there is: but yet the king hath drawn</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The special head of all the land together:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The Prince of Wales, Lord John of Lancaster,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The noble Westmoreland and warlike Blunt;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And many moe corrivals and dear men</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of estimation and command in arms.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Michael</td>
							<td>Doubt not, my lord, they shall be well opposed.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Archbishop</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I hope no less, yet needful ’tis to fear;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And, to prevent the worst, Sir Michael, speed:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For if Lord Percy thrive not, ere the king</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Dismiss his power, he means to visit us,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For he hath heard of our confederacy,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And ’tis but wisdom to make strong against him:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Therefore make haste. I must go write again</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To other friends; and so farewell, Sir Michael. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
